 the next morning. Will there be any harm in my calling on Miss Tilney today? I shall not be easy till I have explained everything. Go by all means, my dear. Only put on a white gown. Miss Tilney always wears white. Catherine cheerfully complied, and being properly equipped, was more impatient than ever to be at the pump room, that she might inform herself of General Tilney's lodgings, for though she believed they were in Milsom Street, she was not certain of the house, and Mrs. Allen's wavering convictions only made it more doubtful. To Milsom Street she was directed, and having made herself perfect in the number, hastened away, with eager steps and a beating heart, to take her visit, explain her conduct, and be forgiven. Tripping lightly through the churchyard and resolutely turning away her eyes, that she might not be obliged to see her beloved Isabella and her dear family, who she had reason to believe, were in a shop hard by. She reached the house without any impediment, looked at the number, and with a look which did not quite confirm his words said that he had been mistaken for that Miss Tilney was walked out Catherine with a blush of mortification left the house she felt almost persuaded that Miss Tilney was at home and she much offended to admit her and as she retired down the street could not withhold one glance at the triangular windows in expectation of seeing her there at the bottom of the street however she looked back again and then not at the window but issuing from the door she saw Miss Tilney herself she was followed by a gentleman who Catherine believed to be her father and they turned up towards Edgar's buildings Catherine in deep mortification proceeded on her way she could almost be angry herself at such angry insufficiency but she took a resentful sensation she remembered her own ignorance she knew not how such an offense as hers might be classed by the laws of worldly politeness to what degree of unforgivingness it might with propriety lead nor to what rigors of rudeness in return it might justly make her amenable dejected and humbled she had even some thoughts of not going with the others to the theater that night for she soon recollected in the first place that she was without any excuse for staying at home and in the second to the theater accordingly they all went no tillings appeared to plague or please her she feared that amongst the many perfections of the family a fondness for plays was not to be ranked but perhaps it was because they were habituated to the finer performances of the London stage on the beginning of the fifth however the sudden view of Mr. Henry Tilney and his father joining a party in the opposite box recalled her to anxiety and distress the stage could no longer excite genuine merriment no longer keep her whole attention every other look upon an average was directed towards the opposite box and for the space of two entire scenes did she thus watch Henry Tilney without being once able to catch his eye no longer could he be suspected of indifference for a play his notice notice was never withdrawn from the stage during two whole scenes, and forced him to hear her explanation. Feeling rather natural and heroic possessed her, instead of considering her own dignity injured by this ready condemnation, instead of proudly resolving, in conscious innocence, to show her resentment towards him who can hardly doubt of it, to leave to him all the trouble of seeking an explanation, and to enlighten him on the past only by avoiding his sight, or flirting with somebody else, she took to herself all the shame of his conduct, or at least of his appearance, and was only eager for an opportunity of explaining its cause. The play concluded, the curtain fell, Henry Tilney was no longer to be seen where he had hitherto sat, but his father remained, and perhaps he might be now coming round to their box. She was right, in a few minutes he appeared, he must have thought me so rude, but indeed it was not my own fault, was it Mrs. Allen? Did not they assurance, however, standing sole as it did, was not thrown away. It brought a more cordial, more natural smile into his countenance. And he replied in a tone which retained only a little effective reserve. We were much obliged to you, at any rate, for wishing us a pleasant walk after our passing you in Argyle Street. You were so kind as to look back on purpose. But indeed, I did not wish you a pleasant walk. I never thought of such a thing. But I begged Mr. Thorpe so earnestly to stop. I called out to him as soon as ever I saw you. Now, Mrs. Allen did not, oh, you were not there. But indeed, I did. And if Mr. Thorpe would only have stopped, I would have jumped out and went after you. Is there a Henry in the world who could be insensible to such a declaration? Henryney at least was not with a yet sweeter smile he said everything that need to be said of his sister's concern regret and dependence on Catherine's honor oh do not say Miss Tilney was not angry cried Catherine because I know she was for she would not see me this morning when I called I saw her walk out of the house the next minute after my leaving it I was hurt but I was not affronted perhaps you did not know I had been there I was not within at the time but I heard of it from Eleanor and she has been wishing ever since to see you to explain the reason of such incivility but perhaps I can do it as well it was nothing more than that my father and he being hurried for time and not caring to have it put off made point of her being denied that was all I do assure you and meant to make her apology as soon as possible Catherine's mind was greatly eased by this information yet something that solicited remained from which rang following question thoroughly artless in itself though rather distressing to the gentleman the the world. While talking to each other, was engaged in conversation with General Tilney. What could they have to say of her? She told General Tilney to not like her appearance. She found it was implied in his preventing her admistence to his daughter, rather than postpone his own walk a few minutes. How came Mr. Thorpe to know your father? was her anxious inquiry, as she pointed them out to her companion. He knew nothing about it, but his father, like every military man, when the entertainment was over, Thorpe changed his system in getting out. The castron was the immediate object of his gallantry, and while they waited in the lobby for a chair, he prevented the inquiry which had travelled from her heart almost to the tip of her tongue, by asking, in a consequential manner, whether she had seen him talking with General Tilney. He's a fine old fellow upon my soul, stout, active, looks as young as his son. I have a great regard for him, I assure you. Know him, there are a few people much about him that I do not know. I have met him forever at Bedford, and I knew his face again the day at the moment he came into the billiard room, one of the finest players we have by the by, and we had a little touch together, though I was almost afraid of him at first. The odds were five to four against me, and if I had not made one of the cleanest strokes that perhaps ever was made in this world, I shook his ball exactly. But I could not make you understand it without a table. However, I did beat him, a very fine fellow, as Richard did you, lowering his voice. Well done, General, said I. I am quite of your mind.